# MSMARCO V2

MS MARCO(Microsoft Machine Reading Comprehension) is a large scale dataset focused on machine reading comprehension and question answering. In MS MARCO, all question have been generated from real anonymized Bing user queries which grounds the dataset in a real world problem and can provide researchers real contrainsts their models might be used in.The context passages, from which the answers in the dataset are derived, are extracted from real web documents using the most advanced version of the Bing search engine. The answers to the queries are human generated.

First released at [NIPS 2016](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.09268v2.pdf) MSMARCO was 100,000 queries with a variety of domains. Since then, the MSMARCO team has been hard at work making the data bigger and better. Details about all the changes/improvements are below. If you have suggestions for our dataset, novel uses, or general feedback please reach out to us at ms-marco@microsoft.com

In its current form(V2.1), there are 1,010,916 unique real queries that were generated by sampling and anonymizing Bing usage logs. After sampling, we used Bing to extract the 10 most relevant passages and asked a human judge to answer the query given the information present. Not all queries had answers present in the passages but we thought this data would be useful to help systems learn that not all answers can be answers.  Around 35% of all queries in the dataset have the answer 'No answer Present' meaning judges were unable to answer the question given the information provided by the 10 relevant passages.


## Dataset Generation, Data Format, And Statistics
